Ritik Sharma

Ques 1 : 
Descriptive Statistics :- 
* It is that branch of statistics which is concerned with describing 
the population under study.
* It organize, analyze and present data in a meaningful way.
Inferential Statistics :- 
*It is a type of statistics  that focuses on drawing conclusions 
about the population, on the basis of sample analysis and observation.
* It Compares , test and predicts data.

Ques 2 : Explain the concept of the p-value in hypothesis testing.
How is it used to make decisions regarding the null hypothesis? 

* The p-value in hypothesis testing quantifies the probability of obtaining observed data as
extreme as what you observed, assuming the null hypothesis is true.
* When p-value is greater than alpha, we fail to reject the null hypothesis, while p-value is less 
than alpha, we reject the null hypothesis, and we can conclude that we have a significant result.

Ques 3: Which of the following statements about the standard deviation is true? 
a) It measures the spread or dispersion of data. 
b) It represents the most frequent value in a dataset. 
c) It is the same as the variance. 
d) It is always positive.

Ans : a)It measures the spread or dispersion of data.

Ques 4: In matrix multiplication, the order of matrices matters. If you have matrices A (3x2) and B (2x4), what will be the dimensions of the resulting matrix when you multiply A by B?
 a) 3x4
 b) 2x2
 c) 3x2
 d) 2x3

Ans : a) 3x4

Ques 5:Which of the following matrices is an identity matrix? 

Ans: (a)

Ques 6: What is the main purpose of a confidence interval in statistics? 	        (1 Marks)
a) To determine the sample size required for a study. 
b) To estimate the population mean or proportion with a margin of error. 
c) To test hypotheses about population parameters. 
d) To plot the data points on a graph.

Ans: b) To estimate the population mean or proportion with a margin of error.

Ques 7 For the given dataset, calculate the Mean, Median, Mode, Geometric Mean, and 
Harmonic Mean and what these values tell us about the data.
Provide a short explanation about the above mentioned metrics as well. 	

Ans: We have calculated Mean, Median, Mode, Geometric Mean, and 
Harmonic Mean for Area record in the dataset 
* For Mean,Geometric Mean, and Harmonic Mean we are getting output as : nan which stands for
Not a number as from #345377 record we are having Missing data or invalid data for Area records
* for Median we are getting 399.0 .The median is a measure of central tendency and tells us the value 
that divides the dataset into two equal halves.It is not affected by extreme outliers.
so in this dataset we have divided Area into 2 halves and got the midean value as 399.0
* for mode we have got [1.0] indicating that 1.0 is the most frequently occurring value in the dataset.


Ques 8:Determine the shape of the data, inter quartile range, variance, standard deviation, 
mean absolute deviation of the given data.Provide a short explanation about the above
mentioned metrics as well. 


Ans : The shape of data is spread out as the range i am getting is  8580099.996 and I am getting
IQR as 3542.5 and we know that 
A larger IQR indicates greater variability in the middle 50% of data points 
A smaller IQR suggests less variability in the central portion of the data.

Ques 9:  Calculate the  correlation of the dataframe including correlation categorical variables as well.
Explain Pearson correlation, Kendall rank correlation, Spearman correlation, and the Point-Biserial correlation.

Ans :
Pearson correlation :-
* it measures the linear relationship between two continuous variables.
* It ranges from -1 to 1 , with 0 indicating no linear correlation.

Kendall rank correlation :-
*it is a non-parametric measure of association between two variables.
*It is based on the ranks of the data points rather than their actual values

Spearman correlation :-
* it measures the strength and direction of the monotonic relationship between two variables.
* It can handle ties in the data

Point-Biserial Correlation :-
* it  measure the strength and direction of the association between a dichotomous 
variable and a continuous variable.

Question 10: Define an orthogonal matrix and elaborate on the reasons for its preference
in computational applications.

Ans:  orthogonal matrix is a matrix where the dot product of any two distinct rows (or columns) is zero, 
and the magnitude (length) of each row (or column) is equal to 1. The transpose of an orthogonal matrix is also its inverse.

Here are some key reasons why orthogonal matrices are preferred in various computational applications:-

1. Orthogonal matrices preserve the lengths of vectors and the angles between 
them during matrix operations.
2. Orthogonal matrices represent orthogonal transformations,These transformations are used extensively in 
computer graphics, computer vision, and robotics to manipulate and transform objects or images.
3. Orthogonal matrices are numerically stable because their inverse is also their transpose.


Question 11: What’s the difference between a Matrix and a Tensor?

Ans: 

Matrix: A matrix is a two-dimensional array of numbers arranged in rows and columns. We can add and subtract matrices 
of the same size, multiply one matrix with another as long as the sizes are compatible ((n × m) × (m × p) = n × p), 
and multiply an entire matrix by a constant.

Tensor: A tensor is often thought of as a generalized matrix. it could be a 1-D matrix 
, a 3-D matrix, even a 0-D matrix , or a higher dimensional structure that is harder to visualize.
 A tensor is a more general mathematical object that can have any number of dimensions. 
The components of a tensor can be scalars, vectors, matrices, or other tensors.












